This lecture is about
reading data from the web.
There are a large number ways that
you can read data from the web.
This is primarily going to focus on
scraping data out of websites and maybe
doing a little bit with working with APIs
and a little bit about authentication.
Later we'll have a lecture that
specifically focuses on just the API
component of getting data out of the web.
So webscraping is programatically
extracting data from
HTML code of websites or from URLs.
It can be a great way to get data.
For example, this link that I
have here is an article about
how somebody scraped all of the categories
that Netflix assigns movies to and
then analyzed them in
a very interesting way.
And that ended up being a story that went
viral because it collected an interesting
set of data just by programmatically
extracting data from websites.
I would say almost all websites have
information that you might want to
programmatically read in some
way if you're interested
in getting the data off that site.
In some cases this is against
the terms of service for the website.
So some websites don't specifically
say that they do not wanna be scraped.
And so when you do that,
if you try to scrape the data from them,
you're at your own risk.
If you attempt to read too
many pages too quickly,
a very common consequence is that you
can have your IP address blocked.
If you read a lot of proprietary
information off of websites,
you can get into even bigger trouble, so
you should be a little bit careful when
you're deciding to scrape
data off of websites.
But in general, it can be a very good way
to collect a lot of data very quickly.
So I'm gonna give you one example of how
to programmatically extract some data and
so that comes from my Google Scholar page.
So this is that Google Scholar page and
there's the link down there at the bottom.
That's the web link.
And so this is actually a page that
tells you about the papers that I've
published and something about
how often they've been cited,
which is the kind of data
that academics care about.
And so what we're gonna do is,
first we're gonna use the read_lines
command to get some data off the Internet,
that's one way.
And so what you can do is you can open
a connection to a particular URL and
you can do that using this URL function.
So you just pass it the name of
the URL that you would like to open
a connection to.
And then you can use the readLines
function to read out
some of the data from that connection.
And then just like when you
were working with the database,
you're gonna wanna be sure to close
the connection after you've used it.
So if you look at the htmlCode
that we've collected from this,
it's gonna look like this.
It's gonna look very,
like one big long string of letters.
You can send readLines a set number of
lines that you'd like it to read but
it'll still come out
unformatted in this way.
So it's a little bit hard to read.
One way to deal with that is to, as we've
seen before is to use the XML package.
So again, we could use this same URL.
Use the XML package, and
parse the HTML again,
using the InternalNodes to get
the complete structure out.
Then if I wanted to get say, get
the title of the page, I could look for
the node that's in the title tags.
And get the title of the page.
Or I could get sort of the number of
times my papers were cited by looking
at particular table
elements of that table.
Another approach to getting data
is actually with the GET command.
This is the httr package.
For doing things like this
where there's an open,
easily accessible website,
accessing it with
connections like we talked about
before might be the easiest way.
But we'll talk in a minute about why the
httr package can be very useful in other
settings.
So here I've loaded the httr package,
and then what I do is I take that
same URL I was using before, and
I just GET the URL with html2.
And then what I have to do now is actually
have to extract the content from that
HTML page.
So I do that, and I say I'm gonna
extract the content as a text.
Just one big text string.
And then I can use the htmlParse
command to parse out that text, and
get the parsed HTML.
And so this parsed HTML is gonna
look exactly like what I would
have got if I had used the XML
package to extract the data directly.
And so then I can use xpathSApply
to extract out the title
of the page again like I did before.
So that's how you can use get
just to do the exact same sort of
exercise that you would have
done with the XML package.
In some other cases, you might have to do
something a little bit more complicated.
So if you navigate to this
webpage with your browser,
you'll see that it requires a username and
password input.
And so if I just try to get that page
using the GET command from the httr
package, I get a response
that says Status: 401 and
that's because I wasn't able to login
because I haven't been authenticated.
So what you could do with the HTTR package
is you can actually authenticate yourself
for websites, and so
you can do this by assigning to this
what we're gonna call the handle.
We can go and get that website and
so we pass at the URL again, but
then we use this authenticate command, and
we give it the username and the password.
In this case,
this is just a test website, and so
the username is user and
the password is password.
And so you can test out things like
this to see if you can get access.
In this case now, the response
is Status: 200, which means we
actually were able to get access to
the file and to even authenticate it.
And now we can look at
the names of this pg2,
which gives you all
the different components.
We included the cookies that we have for
this file, and
then the handle that we used
to access it and all that.
And so, we can then use the content
function to extract the content from that
website, after having logged in through r.
So make sure that you use handles
because if you use handles then you can
actually access.
You can sort of save the authentication
across multiple accesses to a website.
So if you set Google to be a handle where
that Google is a particular website,
then what you can do is you can tell
GET to go and get that handle and
you can say go get it for a specific
path or you can set it a different path.
So for example,
if you authenticate this handle one time
then the cookies will stay with that
handle and you'll be authenticated.
You won't have to keep authenticating over
and over again as you access that website.
So, r-bloggers has a lot of good examples
on how to scrape data from the Web, and
so if you search for
Web scraping on r-bloggers,
you'll be able to get
all of those tutorials.
The httr help file also has
a bunch of useful examples,
primarily with sort of toy examples.
So if you couple that with some
of the more applied examples
on r-bloggers you can get quite a ways.
And then see later lectures on APIs on
how to programmatically interact with
APIs of websites.